Assignment 6 : Virtualisation

Reading
1.Concept of Virtualization.
● Virtualization is a technology that helps us to install different Operating Systems on a
hardware.
● They are completely separated and independent from each other.
● Virtualization hides the physical characteristics of computing resources from their
users, their applications or end users. This includes making a single physical resource
(such as a server, an operating system, an application or a storage device) appear to
function as multiple virtual resources. It can also include making multiple physical
resources (such as storage devices or servers) appear as a single virtual resource...”
2.Virtualization types :
Server Virtualization :
It is virtualizing your server infrastructure
where you do not have to use any more physical
servers for different purposes.
Client and Desktop Virtualization :
This is similar to server virtualization, but
this time is on the user’s site where you
virtualize their desktops. We change their
desktops with thin clients and by utilizing
the datacenter resources.

Services and applications Virtualization :
The virtualization technology isolates
applications from the underlying
operating system and from other
applications, in order to increase
compatibility and manageability. For
example – Docker can be used for that
purpose.
Network Virtualization
It is a part of virtualization
infrastructure, which is used
especially if you are going to
visualize your servers. It helps you
in creating multiple switching,
Vlans, NAT-ing, etc. The following
illustration shows the VMware
schema :

Storage Virtualization
This is widely used in data centers
where you have a big storage and it
helps you to create, delete, allocated
storage to different hardware. This
allocation is done through network
connection. The leader on storage is
SAN. A schematic illustration is
given below:
3.Hypervisor and its types.
A hypervisor is a thin software layer that intercepts operating system calls to the hardware.
It is also called the Virtual Machine Monitor (VMM). It creates a virtual platform on
the host computer, on top of which multiple guest operating systems are executed and
monitored.
Hypervisors are two types:
1. Native of Bare Metal Hypervisor
Native hypervisors are software systems that run directly on the host's hardware to
control the hardware and to monitor the Guest Operating Systems. The guest
Operating system runs on a separate level above the hypervisor. All of them have
Virtual Machine Manager.
Examples of this virtual machine architecture are Oracle VM, Microsoft Hyper-V,
VMWare ESX and Xen.

2. Hosted Hypervisor
Hosted hypervisors are designed to run within a traditional operating system. In
other words, a hosted hypervisor adds a distinct software layer on top of the host
operating system. While, the guest operating system becomes a third software level
above the hardware.
A well-known example of a hosted hypervisor is Oracle VM VirtualBox. Others
include VMWare Server and Workstation, Microsoft Virtual PC, KVM, QEMU and
Parallels.
Advantages of Virtualization
1. Using Virtualization for Efficient Hardware Utilization
2. Using Virtualization to Increase Availability
3. Disaster Recovery
4. Save Energy
5. Deploying Servers too fast
6. Save Space in your Server Room or Datacenter
7. Testing and setting up Lab Environment
8. Shifting all your Local Infrastructure to Cloud in a day
9. Possibility to Divide Services
Disadvantages of Virtualization
1. Extra Costs
2. Software Licensing
3. Learn the new Infrastructure



Assignment 7 : Containerization

Reading
1. Concept of Containerization and Dockers containers.
● The old name for containers is Resource Manager, which better describes the
concept. Containers are defined with various resources or proportion of resources
and then processes are started using those allocated resources.
● The operating system and file system is common to all containers and there is no
additional security imposed.
● The benefit of containers is that you can allocate defined resources to an application
and be confident that, even if another application has become very busy, your
contained application will continue to operate with the resources you have defined. So
one contained application will not be adversely affected by another application.
● A container is a standardized unit that packages your code and its dependencies. This
package is designed to run reliably on any platform, because the container creates its
own independent environment. With containers, workloads can be carried from one
place to another, such as from development to production or from on-premises
environments to the cloud.
● An example of a containerization platform is Docker. Docker is a popular container
runtime that simplifies the management of the entire operating system stack required
for container isolation, including networking and storage. Docker helps customers
create, package, deploy, and run containers.



Assignment 8 : Zoning

Reading
● Zones are an extension of containers according to the marketing material Sun publish.
However, while zones can be placed inside a container, the principle of zones is rather
different. Zones are like virtual operating systems running under a single operating system.
● Zones provide security and a limited degree of isolation; zones have their own hostname,
password files and IP addresses etc, so appear to remote users as a machine in their own
right.
● Further, each zone can be rebooted and each has its own file space. However, a fault that
results in a kernel panic in one zone will cause the whole machine to reboot, along with all
the zones it is running.
● Each zone has a copy of the core OS files and these are placed in a sub-directory of the
global zone.
● In a clustered environment, where there is a desire to failover zones, then the zone files will
be stored on a shared area and each zone will be allocated an independent disk partition.
Only a single copy of the operating system is actually running and so upgrades to the OS will
affect all zones.
Regions
Regions are geographic locations worldwide where it hosts its data centers.
Each Region is associated with a geographical name and a Region code.
Availability Zones
Inside every Region is a cluster of Availability Zones. An Availability Zone consists of one or
more data centers with redundant power, networking, and connectivity. These data centers
operate in discrete facilities in undisclosed locations. They are connected using redundant
high-speed and low-latency links.
